## War Treasury
tags: war treasury, wt

::: tip
Make sure you get 2 Dorm guarantees before buying cards from WT, or opening S-rank egg
:::

### Ancient Willpower valks
- First get SSS LE
- None of the other valks are very good to invest in for use in battle
- Prioritize remaining valks and ranks according to their dorm buff increase over cost; check ["!faq dorm buff"](/faq/107)
- To that end, I recommend S MC and S BN first

### Ancient Legacy valks
- Currently pretty tricky to invest in because FR and ME are both old (and of course CH, HR, HV, and SK are very old)
- If you're not even lv 81 yet, might be good to just save your Ancient Legacy.
- FR and ME should both be SSS-rank (or v close) to be competent.
- If you must, I think ME could be a good bet. It would certainly be a gamble though.
- FR is the best farmable lightning valk, good lightning support, but best on nothing. One path you can take is skipping HT, IO, Aponia and just farm FR copium while waiting for future options.
- ME is currently top phys damage dealer in some situations. The bet for investing in her would be on Mihoyo not giving us a better option for Ranged-weak Tank.
- Some more text for the people who like reading: https://discord.com/channels/418652140454674432/901268521181401108/927433678387286036
- Very safe to invest in SS SK for the dorm buff.

### Income and farming speed
- Look for ["!faq ancient"](/faq/102) for details
- In 1 year of play, it is possible to get two SSS-rank Ancient Willpower valks and more

### S-rank egg
- Ideally, save this egg until you have only 1 valk that you do not have
- If you're a little more impatient, you can open it as soon as you finished your 2 Dorm guarantees, and pick a valk you do not own according to your farming priority
- Picking an unowned valk roughly saves you 5 weeks of Ancient Willpower income