## How EXPA Select and FOCA Select work
tags: expa foca supply select

### EXPA
EXPA Select shares a guarantee counter with the normal Valkyrie Expansion Supply. However, the key difference is that EXPA allows you to choose the uprate Valkyrie from a predetermined pool. These have 3 Valkyries to choose from. Once you select a Valkyrie, you are guaranteed to pull her as the S rank (guaranteed S rank is still at 100 pulls). For example, they may give you the choice between HoS, HFs, and AE, which means you can choose which one of the 3 is the uprate. The uprate Valkyrie selected can be changed up to 5 times. The A ranks available are the same across selections and only S ranks change. Pity resets if you have acquired the S rank Valkyrie. 

### FOCA
FOCA Select contains 5 gear sets you can choose as uprate from a pool. For example, you may be able to choose between HoS’s signature gear, HFs’s signature gear, and so on. You can change what gear you have selected up to 10 times. The sets you do not choose as uprate will still be on the supply as off rates. There is a guarantee only for the uprate weapon at 60 pulls, however, no such guarantees exist for stigmata on this supply. The aforementioned weapon guarantee will reset once you either pull the weapon or change your selected gear. To clarify, this means that if you select one set of gear as uprate, then you change your selection to another set, the pity will reset back to 60. Be mindful of the fact that FOCA Select does not share a guarantee counter with Focused Supply A or Focused Supply B. 

> Note that whichever Valkyries are in the EXPA Select will have their gears in the corresponding FOCA Select. So the gear available on FOCA Select will be the signature sets of the EXPA Select Valkyries along with two other sets MiHoYo chooses to add in.