## Basics of Team Building
tags: team

In this game, you need a lot of teams! Who you use depends on a lot of things like the game mode, your gear options, the Weather (essentially a system where certain Valkyire/damage types are buffed or debuffed) if you’re fighting in Abyss, and of course what Valkyires you have available!

The normal structure for teams is one damage dealer (DPS) and two supports there to boost your DPS’s  strength. If you run multiple DPS, they’ll just be fighting each other for field time since they don’t do anything when off field. If you run 3 supports, you won’t have anyone for your support’s skills to boost. An easy way to tell if a Valkyire is a support is to read through their skills and see if they have anything that boosts their teammates damage. For example, if a Valkyire has a skill that boosts her teammates ice damage, then she’s most likely an ice support.

Some teams, usually ones which are reliant on things like Time Fracture and fast rotations, are better suited for Memorial Arena while others with slower rotations or less Time Fracture may be better suited for abyss. If you don’t know if a Valkyire/team is more suited for Abyss or Memorial Arena, just ask!

For more details on how to build teams, check out this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3H0-4c0L9o

**You can also ask questions about what team you should build from scratch, but make sure you include information about what Valkyires you have, how good their gear is, what gamemode you’re in, what you’re trying to fight, and what the Weather is if you’re in Abyss. We can’t help you if you ask for a “general” team since every Valkyire/team covers different things.**