# Time Fractures and other Time Effects
tags: tf

### Time Slow
Time Slow is a status effect that greatly slows the target. This also extends any applicable debuffs on the target by slowing down the counter for them. Newton, Mei, and all of CH's impair methods are not applicable, for example; they don't get extended. Stuff like Mjolnir or DP impair does get extended.

### Time Lock
Time Lock temporarily freezes the target in time, immobilizing them completely as well as halting the timer for any applicable debuffs on them. It's basically a 100% Time Slow.

### Time Fracture
Time Fracture slows the entire world, applying time slow to all enemies and also slowing the game clock. This latter effect is incredibly important for Memorial Arena, where scores on bosses are determined by the game clock time.

### Time Stop
Time Stop pauses all game timers, like stage and buff timers, it essentially allows characters to have exciting animations without impacting your gameplay. Characters who do not have timestops (older characters) can sometimes get new weapons that enable timestops for them.

### Suspended Animation
This is a community term for animations that slow the score clock timer in memorial arena, but are not a time fracture. Buffs/Debuffs still move in real time during these effects. It's similar to time stops in why it exists, to allow for cool animations without hurting your time too much. Kind of like a beta version of timestop.

### Bow Aiming
This time slowing effect slows everything, in this respect it's similar to both time stops and suspended animation. By slowing everything across the board, it gives the player a fair chance to aim without worrying about losing too much time. Time also doesn't pass quickly, so makesure your timing is good when you start, or you could miss your target.