## All about captain level
tags: level up, break through, break the ceiling, experience, rush

### How do I gain levels faster? How does exp work?
- In general, 1 exp = 1 stamina spent
- You get multipliers on exp gained when you are low level; see the active multipliers by clicking on the up arrow on your profile
- Adventure Tasks are not affected by multipliers
- You also get exp for claiming Daily BP, by an amount that is stated on the BP, and this exp gained is affected by multipliers
- Claiming finished passive Expeditions are affected by multipliers, calculated at the time of claiming rather than starting the Expedition
- In other words, the best way to level up is just by doing daily tasks and things that require stamina

### Should I rush leveling up?
It is best to claim as much Captain Exp as possible from your daily farming.

Prior to v4.2, the best advice was to level up as slowly as possible while claiming 150 Daily Duty, which was basically the old version of Daily BP. This is because Masters Abyss included players lv 70 to 85 (with 85 being the former max level), where players lv 81 to 85 had PRI-ARMs. Thus, passing lv 70 was an enormous spike in competition, and it was impossible to place high enough to match the rewards obtained from Elites (lv 56 to 69).

However, that is since changed, and now Masters, regardless of Abyss or Arena, comprises lv 70 to 80 players only. It is "like entering Elites again".

Regardless of your skill level, moving up a tier will result in an increase in Crystal gain. For example, a player who retains Agony in Elites is likely to retain Agony in Masters. At the very least, the player will alternate between Sinful and Agony. Both situations reward more Crystals than retaining Agony in Elites.

Looking at it from another angle, a 180-day player who level rushed is far more likely to retain Red Lotus in Masters than a 180-day player who didn't. The two players may have tried to farm the same gear, but the player who used Exp Chips is higher level and so has more attack, and the player has also earned more rewards (e.g. Ancient Willpower, Crystals) in the 180 days thanks to entering better-rewarding tiers earlier.

Furthermore, if your intention is to break through, it is better to enter Exalted (lv 81+) as soon as possible to begin farming PRI-ARM upgrade mats.

### What is breaking through?
- Starting from lv 80 you can choose whether to "break the ceiling", which allows you to advance to level 81. Without breaking, you will always be held at level 80.
- You can choose to do so whenever you want, but you can never reverse your decision.

### Should I stay in Masters?
- In masters it's easier to top score with farmable Valkyries (e.g. VD, BB, HF, DK, DP, NS) whereas in Exalted it's much harder to compete without Gacha Valkyries.
- Good scores (i.e. close to cap scores) in Masters are attainable using a variety of options, whereas good scores in Exalted have very little flexibility when it comes to gacha valks and gear.
- No need to worry about Dorm Level and Divine Keys, which are built up over hundreds of days of playing and provide older players with strong universal account buffs.
- No need to worry about PRI-ARMs and the hard-to-obtain materials needed to upgrade them.
- Hoyoverse frequently updates Exalted Abyss with new bosses and weathers that cater to the newest Valkyries, whether the Valks are gacha or otherwise.
- No need to worry about SSS bosses, which are usually very difficult without the latest Gacha Valkyries.

### Should I break through to Exalted?
- High spenders will get bored quickly in Masters because they will very quickly be able to reach the top few spots in Arena and Abyss, where they may even sometimes find F2P players easily outscoring them because F2P valks may do better on Masters bosses.
- The same account will earn marginally more rewards in Exalted Abyss, even if it places lower, since Exalted rewards are better. These rewards include Crystals, Ancient Legacy, and Ancient Willpower.
- Hoyoverse frequently updates Exalted Abyss with new bosses and weathers, whereas Masters Abyss gets updated more slowly. (Good or bad depending on your preferences.)
- Get to play with PRI-ARMs, which often have fun mechanics.
- Materials useful to all players, like Ancient Legacy and Affix Lock mats are scarce in Masters.
- Elysian Realm is slightly easier with PRI-ARMs.

### If I have decided to break through, when should I do it?
- If you commit to breaking through, it is best to break through as soon as possible to begin farming PRI-ARM upgrade mats. A lot of how well someone can do in Exalted depends on their PRI-ARM availability, and it's hence better to begin collecting and leveling PRIs as soon as possible to catch up with older players
