## About Firepower Supply: what is it and is it worth rolling?
tags: firepower

### **What is Firepower Supply?**
Firepower Supply is a unique Supply that we get once in a while, usually during big events like Anniversaries. It is essentially a custom Supply in which you can pick 5 weapons and 5 stigma sets out of a predetermined pool of gear. You can roll on Firepower once during the period where it’s available, and it will guarantee you one gear piece that you don’t have already have in your collection (or in other words, haven’t owned at any point).

### **Is Firepower Supply worth it?**
If Firepower Supply is worth rolling depends entirely on the state of your account.

It is recommended to roll Firepower Supply if you can select 9 weapons/stigma sets that are already in your collection and one gear piece you don’t already have, hence narrowing your pool essentially to that one gear piece. The best use of your guarantee is on a Divine Key for the universal buffs, or a weapon which rotates into supply with a forgable set (ex: Hekate) so you avoid having to roll for forgable stigmata, or the last piece of a gear set that you already have 3/4 of and are just missing the last piece. In other words, it’s most effectively used to dodge having to roll on a normal Supply in the future entirely if you feel you need the gear from it.

However, it is NOT recommended to roll Firepower Supply if your gear collection is too small to be able to snipe one gear piece of your choosing via the method mentioned above, or if you just simply don’t feel the need for any of the featured gear from it. As I mentioned before, the best way to use Firepower is by using it to avoid having to roll on another Supply later. If you use Firepower Supply to get something like your first piece of a set, there’s a good chance you’ll just get a duplicate of whatever piece you rolled anyway while going for the rest of it.

### **TLDR:**
Firepower Supply is worth it for established accounts that can snipe a gear piece of their choosing, but not worth for those who can’t.