# Understanding Impair ("脆弱")
tags: impair

1. Enemies have DEF. Many Ex MA bosses have `DEF = 996`. The result of DEF on damage is that a factor of `1 / (1 + (DEF / (300 + 20 * lv)))` is multiplied to any damage when the damage is physical. This multiplier is called phys resist effect. lv is the level of the attacking valk. I'll use `lv = 80` for this FAQ, thus `phys resist effect = 1900 / (1900 + DEF)`. For example, when `DEF = 1000`, `phys resist effect = 0.655`, i.e. `0.655` is multiplied to any physical damage.
2. If it helps, `1 - ele resist = ele resist effect` is multiplied to any ele damage just like how `1 - phys resist = phys resist effect` is multiplied to any phys damage.
2. Impair is a reduction in `DEF`, i.e. Impair is a percentage that is deducted. Let's say Impair is `75%` (e.g. CH Ult), so where `DEF = 1000` before Impair, now `DEF = 250` and `phys resist effect = 1900 / (1900 + 250) = 0.884`.
3. `0.884` is a lot better than the `0.655` from before Impair! We can also deduce that dmg increase as a result of impair is `Impair * DEF / (1900 + (1 - Impair) * DEF)`. For `DEF = 1000` and `75%` Impair, that's `750 / (1900 + 250) = 0.349`, which makes sense, as `1.349 * 0.655 = 0.884`.
4. Impair is always expressed as a percentage. As far as is known, all sources of Impair replace previous Impair, except when it says "Impair only when not Impaired", in which case it does nothing. (Only 1 source of Impair can be alive.)
5. **BONUS** Herrscher of Sentience's ultimate can be thought of as constantly refreshing it's own impair, thus it takes priority over any other impairs that might be applied for it's duration.