---
description: What is breach and why its great
---
# Breach 
tags: breach, elemental breach, physical breach, ele breach, phys breach

### Understanding Elemental Breach ("元素穿透")
1. Enemies have ele resist. Most Ex MA bosses have 31%. Jizo has 72%. 31% resist means 0.69 is multiplied to any dmg.
2. Ele Breach is reduction in ele resist, i.e. the number is directly subtracted from ele resist. AE has 14% Ele Breach, so bosses with 31% ele resist have 17% ele resist after 14% Ele Breach.
3. To illustrate the impact of Ele Breach, 31% ele resist with 14% Ele Breach results in `83 / 69 = 1.203` times more damage. 72% ele resist with 14% Ele Breach results in `42 / 28 = 1.5` times more damage. In summary, damage increase as a result of having Ele Breach is `Ele Breach / (1 - ele resist)`
4. Each source of Ele Breach is subtracted from ele resist. For example, 14% from AE Ult and 20% from HR Ult (total 34%) results in Jizo having 38% ele resist and bosses with 31% ele resist having 0 ele resist. Note that ele resist cannot be negative, so Ele Breach is no longer useful once ele resist has been reduced to 0.

> Elemental Breach is additive with Reduced Elemental Resistence

### Understanding Physical Breach ("物理穿透")
1. Physical Breach is, at the time of writing, a concept only available in Elysian Realm.
2. Physical Breach does not behave like Ele Breach. Based on testing, it is the same as Impair. See ["!faq impair"](/faq/85).
3. My best guess for why Physical Breach exists in addition to Impair is that historically Impair has been single instance instead of stacking, so they introduced a different name to show this difference.

> Henlo, this is a little add it to clairify. What makes Physical Breach different than impair, is that breach is a valkyrie stat instead of a debuff like impair. This means they "stack" but with a greatly dimminshed effectiveness. Physical Breach and Impair also stack additively with DEF reduction, which is uncommon, but found in Elysian Realm as well. If you get to 100% in any combination, any more is useless. 

> So 40% DEF Reduction and 60% physical Breach is the same thing as 100% pBreach. But 50% pBreach and a 75% impair is only 87.5% reduced DEF.

> Impair and pBreach visual aid <https://www.desmos.com/calculator/je7d4fxkhr>