# Damage formula

:::warning **Advanced topic**
This is in-depth analysis of how damage calculation in Honkai Impact 3 works. For simplified version check [ELI5: How does X affect my damage?](/faq/72).
:::

This article is based on **"Reverse engineering of Honkai Impact 3rd damage calculation"** by *Lazaria (Dmitry221060#5365)*. If you're curious about original research - make sure to check it out - [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A6Froe6dWII5URDxfE_g7Jo42pCtFf8iLS6-vTgqvFI/view)


[[toc]]


## Big Three
Let's start by splitting our damage into 3 logical parts: `Base Damage`, `Outgoing Damage Multiplier` and `Incoming Damage Multiplier`:

$$Damage = Base Damage \times Outgoing Damage Multiplier \times Incoming Damage Multiplier$$

- `Base Damage`: value specified in skill description (like "Deals 500% ATK...");
- `Outgoing Damage Multiplier`: product of every damage multiplier that affects an actor's damage;
- `Incoming Damage Multiplier`: product of every damage multiplier the damage that target receives (this includes target's resistances and type counter effects).

## First: Base Damage
`Base Damage` is a sum of instances of damage:

$$
Base Damage = \sum Damage Instance
$$

`Damage Instance` can be either a flat value or `ATK` multiplier by skill power constant. 

`Damage Instance` can be of
- *damage-type* (valkyrie skill, weapon skill etc) - shows as separate number; 
- or *bonus-type* (affixes, skills with bonus damage), which sums together with existing numbers when possible.
:::details Example - White Comet's skill "Comet Kata"
In-game description:
> Physical DMG dealt by each sequence of the 4-sequence Basic ATK increases by 143.0.
:::

:::warning
Note that any attack in the game can only have ***one*** elemental type at a time. This means, if affix provides `Lightning` damage instance - it will be accounted only for attacks that deal `Physical` or `Lightning` damage.
:::

## Second: Outgoing Multiplier
In general (with few exceptions, which we'll address later), all bonuses of one kind stack additively and bonuses of different kinds - stack multiplicatively. 

For example, if we have `30% Total Damage Bonus`, `15% Fire Damage Bonus` and another `20% Fire Damage Bonus` it will result in:

$$(1 + 0,3) \times (1 + 0,15 + 0,20) = 1,3 \times\nobreak 1,35 = 1,755$$

---

With this in mind, let's outline general formula for `Outgoing Damage Multiplier`

$$
Outgoing Damage Multiplier = (1 + \nobreak \sum ATK\% Bonus) \times
(1 + \nobreak \sum Damage Type Bonus) \times 
(1 + \nobreak \sum Total Damage Bonus) \times CritMultiplier
$$

- `ATK % Bonus`: bonus that increases valkyrie `ATK` (attack) stat;
- `Damage Type Bonus`: bonus that corresponds to the type of damage that attack deals - (`Fire`/`Ice`/`Lightning` + `Elemental`) or `Physical`;
- `Total Damage Bonus`: self explanatory;
- `Crit Multiplier`: a bit more complicated due to the fact that only Physical Damage can crit, so for any Elemental its always = 1. It consists of `Base Crit Damage` (which equals to 200%) and sum of all `Crit Damage Bonuses`. 

$$
Crit Multiplier = \begin{cases}
1 &\text{if elemental damage or non-critical hit} \\
2 + \sum Crit Damage Bonus &\text{if physical damage and critical hit}
\end{cases}
$$

## Third: Incoming Multiplier
Last part is the multipliers that affect damage from target's perspective. This includes `Type Counter`, `Vulnerability`, `Independent Modifiers`, `Damage Reduction` and `Resistance`.

$$
Incoming Damage Multiplier = Type Counter Modifier \times
(1 + \nobreak \sum Damage Type Vulnerability) \times
(1 + \nobreak \sum Total Damage Vulnerability) \times
\prod(1 + \nobreak Independent Modifier) \times
Damage Reduction Multiplier \times
Resistance Multiplier \div
DEFMultiplier
$$

This part is the most complicated, so let's talk about each element one by one

### Type Counter 
There are 5 types (`BIO`, `PSY`, `MECH`, `QUA`, `IMG`) and also some units might have `No Type`. Some types have specific relations with eachother. It can be either "Strong against" (`UP` relation), "Weak against" (`DOWN` relation) or "No interaction" (`NEUTRAL` relation). To learn more about how Type Counter system works in Honkai Impact - check [Type Advantages](/faq/136).

Type Counter interactions result in either 30% more damage (`UP` relation) or 30% less damage (`DOWN` relation). `NEUTRAL` relation has no effect.

It's also possible to affect this Modifier by further increasing it's effect (notably "Type Counter" weather in Abyss), so we should account it as well.

With all this in mind, we can write formula for `Type Counter Modifier` like this:

$$
Type Counter Modifier = (1 + \nobreak 0,3 \times \nobreak Counter Relationship) \times
(1 + \nobreak \sum Type Counter Bonus \times Counter Relationship)
$$

where `Counter Relationship` can be either 1, -1 or 0:

$$
Counter Relationship = \begin{cases}
1, &\text{if source counter target} \\
-1, &\text{if target counter source} \\
0 &\text{if neutral}
\end{cases}
$$

### Vulnerability
`Damage Vulnerability` is a kind of debuff that applies to target and makes it receive more damage. In game you can find it written as "... take (or *receive*) XX% more damage..."

Also, similar to regular buffs, `Total Damage Vulnerability` and `Damage Type Vulnerability` are separate kinds of modifiers.

$$
Vulnerability = (1 + \nobreak \sum Damage Type Vulnerability) \times
(1 + \nobreak \sum Total Damage Vulnerability)
$$

- `Damage Type Vulnerability`: vulnerability that corresponds to the type of damage that attack deals - (`Fire`/`Ice`/`Lightning` + `Elemental`) or `Physical`;
- `Total Damage Vulnerability`: modifiers like ".. receive XX% more total damage".

### Independent Modifier
As it stands from name, `Independent Modifiers` are *independent*. They always multiply with other modifiers and are not affected by such phenomenon as "Buff dilution". They are rare and valuable.

In game those kind of modifiers *mostly* have appropriate note - "independent effect". But sometimes they can also miss this.

:::details Example 1 - Infinite Ouroboros' skill "Sunken Mind"
In-game description: 
>"Enemies within the [Umbra of Ouroboros] **take 20.0% more Lightning DMG from this Valkyrie (independent effect).**"
:::

:::details Example 2 - Stigmata Thales (M)
In-game description: 
>"Gain 10% (20% at 5★) Total DMG Multiplier. **Every hit (CD: 0.3s) on the enemy will cause it to take 1.0% (2.0% at 5★) more Fire DMG from the host for 5s**. Stacks up to 10 times. Each stack gained resets the duration."

While it's not even explicitly stated this modifier is independent one, in fact, *every stack* is a separate independent modifier, which results in such calculations for max (10) stacks: 
$$(1 + 0,2)^{10} = 1,219$$ 
instead of regular 
$$(1 + 0,2 * 10) = 1,2$$
:::

### Damage Reduction
Unique kind of buff, that makes target receive *less* damage. Currently there are no ways to affect this modifier from attacker perspective.

Also, its known that several damage reduction buffs stack multiplicatively with each other. 

$$DamageReductionModifier = \prod (1 - DamageReduction)$$

### Resistance Multiplier
`Resistance` represents target's basic protection from certain type of damage.

`Resistance Multiplier` represents by how much damage will be lowered, based on target's `Resistance`.

`Elemental Resistance` can be decreased with `Elemental Breach`, but `Physical Breach` works in different way and will be covered in [DEF](#def) section. Because of that, `Physical Resistance` of target can't be affected from attacker's perspective, similar to [Damage Reduction](#damage-reduction).

Also `Resistance` can't go below 0.

Since `Physical Resistance` can't be affected, let's write formulas for them separately.

`Elemental Resistance Multiplier` first:
$$
Elemental Resistance Multiplier = 1 - max(Damage Type Resistance + Elemental Resistance - Elemental Breach, 0)
$$
>max(x, 0) here is used to make sure resistance value is always 0 or more

- `Damage Type Resistance`: `Fire`, `Ice` or `Lightning` resistance

And `Physical Resistance Multiplier`:
$$
Physical Resistance Multiplier = 1 - Physical Resistance
$$


### DEF Multiplier
Last piece of our equation, and the most unique one.

So what do we know about it?
- It's based on `DEF` attribute;
- It's effective only for **Physical Damage**, meaning that for Elemental Damage `DEFMultiplier` always will be equal to 1;
- It's affected by the Attacker level (and ignores Target's level);
- It can be affected by `DEF Reduction` modifiers;
- It can be affected by `Impair`;
- And it also can be affected by `Physical Breach`

Now, let's outline the general formula for `DEF Multiplier`:

$$
DEF Multiplier = 1 + \nobreak \frac{DEF \times DEF Reductor}{
    20 \times (Attacker Level + 15)
}
$$

where `DEF Reductor` is the total of all modifiers, that can affect `DEF`. Same as `Elemental Resistance`, it can't go below 0:

$$
DEF Reductor = max((1 - Impair) \times (1 - \nobreak \sum Physical Breach) - DEF Reduction, 0)
$$

## Everything In One Piece
Now we can add everything together to see the whole formula

[Open image](https://imgur.com/KBhPBzY)

<!-- nvm it looks too ugly
$$
Damage = 
\sum (\begin{cases}
SkillDamage, &\text{if skill deals flat damage} \\
ATK \times Skill Multiplier &\text{otherwise}
\end{cases}) \times
(1 + \sum ATK\% Bonus) \times
(1 + \sum Damage Type Bonus) \times
(1 + \sum Total Damage Bonus) \times
(\begin{cases}
1, &\text{if elemental damage or non critical hit} \\
2 + \sum Crit Damage Bonus &\text{if critical hit}
\end{cases}) \times
(1 + 0,3 \times \begin{cases}
1, &\text{if source counter target} \\
-1, &\text{if target counter source} \\
0 &\text{if neutral}
\end{cases}) \times
(1 + \sum Type Counter Bonus \times \begin{cases}
1, &\text{if source counter target} \\
-1, &\text{if target counter source} \\
0 &\text{if neutral}
\end{cases}) \times
(1 + \sum Damage Type Vulnerability) \times
(1 + \sum Total Damage Vulnerability) \times
\prod (1 + Independent Multiplier) \times
(1 - max(\begin{cases}
Damage Type Resistance, &\text{if damage type is Physical} \\
Damage Type Resistance + Elemental Resistance - Elemental Breach &\text{otherwise}
\end{cases}, 0)) \times
\prod (1 - Damage Reduction) \div
(1 + \frac{DEF \times max((1 - Impair) \times (1 - \sum Physical Breach) - DEF Reduction, 0)}
{20 \times (Attacker Level + 15)})
$$
-->